Hello and welcome to Unit Testing for unity.
This is our workshop talking about character physics.
Now in previous workshops we've slowly moved from a very simple character example, moving with arrow
keys to the advanced example separating Monobehaviour and non monobehaviour concerns.
And here in this one we're going to talk about well, what if we depend on yet another unity system
like physics.
And also when we're using physics in this particular example our movement becomes fuzzier.
Meaning I don't click left and it immediately clicks to a position.
It slowly moves over time.
How would we be able to test the value that is slowly changing over time?
So we'll talk about a few of those things here in the source code.
So to take a look at this demo, we are opening up our unity editor and the sample project.
The scene here is going to be the character physics scene.
And one of the things we're going to be looking at is how to test those fuzzy values.
I called it again, fuzzy values to me is values that aren't necessarily instantaneously changing from
A to B.
They slowly animate over time, such as the position of an object or a score that gradually counts up.
These are all areas where you'd want to be able to test something over time, and we have one easy approach
here to do that.
It's not the only way to solve it, but it's one that I think helps us learning along the way.
So let's take a look.
So here we are in the unity project.
We've got the character physics example open.
Let's go ahead and run the scene.
Now here I'm able to move using the arrow keys.
And in previous examples here in the workshop, we've seen it click over every click I did on the left
arrow, the position would click instantaneously changing, but here there's a smoother movement.
I can still use all the arrow keys to direct different traffic of which way it should go, but the idea
of it moving slowly over time is really the novel situation now.
There's lots of ways you could do that in unity, but I chose to use the physics system just to talk
a little bit about what happens if we've got a few more unity systems involved.
Remember what we've been stretching with?
And as an idea here is that in an ideal world, you get your unit testing to test the fewest lines of
dependency, fewest lines of code at once.
But a lot of times our production code isn't so simplistic.
We are depending on different things.
So with the My Data loader and with previous character examples here, we've seen some of the ways to
handle those different dependencies.
This is one more example a little bit more complex than the rest.
Let's take a look at the production code here.
So here we'll look at the character physics example.
We open that up?
And here we've got creating a character primitive.
Here we create the game object first with the cube in appearance for the primitive, and then we add
the component of the character physics monobehaviour.
And then we have a separate character physics class that we take that in there.
So we're already separating from one monolithic class of monobehaviour into two.
So that's a good way to get our code more simplistic and doing a single purpose each in there.
We saw in the previous example that most of the Monobehaviour functionality we needed was just the update.
That's the only thing we really needed to take care of.
So by moving all the non update stuff into the second class, we now have something that's easier to
test.
Then in this simple example, we move to a particular position.
Now let's run the tests and then let's take a look at the production code.
So here let's take a look at running the selected.
It's all running there.
Everything passes.
Now that's just the play mode test.
But we have also got edit mode tests if you want to dig in and take a look at it again, because we're
dealing with monobehaviour stuff.
It feels more appropriate to use a play mode.
So that's the approach I've done here.
But it's up to you and your project to decide which systems you want to test.
Edit mode and which ones you want to test.
Play mode.
So now that we've seen those tests, let's take a quick look here at the source code for the class.
And then we'll look at some of the tests on top.
All right.
So here we are in the character physics.
We're going to see it's pretty similar to the character advanced we saw last.
Again we've separated the Monobehaviour and the non monobehaviour class.
So here's the non monobehaviour class that's doing most of the work.
Notice here inside its constructor it takes a reference to the Monobehaviour and stores it and then
also passes into the Monobehaviour a reference to this class here.
That's so that it can call the move by every time it does an update.
Now there's different ways you could organize that.
You could even remove the hardcoded dependency we have on each other here.
But for the sake of simplicity in this example, this is very appropriate.
Going down the code.
Again, it's just like the advanced in most parts.
I'll do want to call out where there's physics being used.
So here in movement, instead of just moving by the position hardcoded over one instance Taneous update,
we're going to be using the move position here.
And then under Add force, which is a new method that I did that is going to be moving based on physics
forces.
So imagine this is a block and we're giving a push on one side.
And then based on friction and mass and gravity, you know there's some sort of consequence that tends
to be a fuzzier reaction here using the add force.
And we're moving by add force up here at the top of the same class file we see the physics monobehaviour
is declared.
It's pretty familiar in that the same character advanced we saw in the last workshop looks pretty similar,
but we do have a rigid body here that we're storing.
And then when this class wakes up, we do some attaching of the rigid body and then set some physics
values.
So if we think about just kind of recapping instead of having one monobehaviour that does all the physics
and movement together, we've separated the monobehaviour from the non monobehaviour.
Then inside the Monobehaviour we do the update loop and we also take care of some physics stuff.
Then from the other one, the non monobehaviour, we're able to move as we want and take character input,
so take keyboard input and stuff like that.
So it's a pretty good separation here and gets us going with what we need.
Let me think out loud if there's anything else I wanted to mention about this.
Um, yeah.
So I teased about the idea here.
If you wanted to reduce the hard coded dependency that we have, each class depending on each other
and get more of the flexibility that we saw in the My Data loader example, you could certainly declare
interfaces and address it that way, but we don't need to do that here.
We'll just go back and run the example one more time.
So back here in unity we're running and we've got the arrow keys moving around.
In the last few videos we've seen examples of reducing complexity.
So reducing different dependencies some flexibility to separate our code out.
So for the sake of this example here using input and physics and monobehaviours or stuff like that I
think we're all done here.
Thanks.